PREFIX:You might be a redneck if
you have no hubcaps on your car because you're using them to feed your hunting dogs.
you can't visit relatives without getting mud on your tires.
your mother doesn't put on shoes to go grocery shopping.
you've ever been blacklisted in a bowling alley.
anyone in your family has ever purchased peroxide in a gallon container.
you don't think baseball players spit and scratch too much.
you've ever been to a wedding reception at the Waffle House.
your dog has ever brought home something that you cooked for dinner.
you owe a taxidermist more than yuour monthly income.
you've ever caught bugs just so you could throw them in the bug zapper.
you have a hefty bag for a passenger-side window.
you've ever hollered "Rock the house, Bubba!" during a piano recital.
your kids' favorite bedtime story is "Curious George and the High Voltage Fence."
you ever cut your grass and found a car.
you own a home that is mobile and 5 cars that aren't.
you think the stock market has fence around it.
your stereo speakers used to belong to the Moonlight Drive-in Theater.
you've ever lost a loved one to kudzu.
your boat has not left the driveway in 15 years.
you own a homemade fur coat.
chiggers are included on your list of top 5 hygiene concerns.
you burn your yard rather than mow it.
your wife has ever said, "Come move this transmission so I can take a bath."
you refer to the time you won a free case of motor oil as "the day my ship came in."
you read the Auto Trader with a highlight pen.
the Salvation Army declines your mattress.
you've ever raked leaves in your kitchen.
your entire family has ever sat around waiting for a call from the Governor to spare a loved one.
your grandmother has ever been asked to leave the bingo hall because of her language.
someone asks, "Where's your bowling bag?" and you answer, "She's at home with the kids."
birds are attracted to your beard.
your wife's job requires her to wear an orange vest.
you were shooting pool when any of your kids were born.
you have the local taxidermist's number on speed dial.
you've ever hit a deer with your car... deliberately.
your school fight song has "Dueling Banjos".
you think a chain saw is a musical instrument.
you've ever given rat traps as gifts.
you clean your fingernails with a stick.
your coffee table used to be a cable spool.
you keep a can of RAID on the kitchen table.
you hammer bottle caps into the frame of your front door to make it look nice.
your wife can climb a tree faster than your cat.
your mother has "ammo" on her Christmas list.
every socket in your house breaks a fire code.
you've totaled every car you've ever owned.
there are more than five McDonald's bags currently in the floorboard of your car.
the Home Shopping operator recognized your voice.
there has ever been crime-scene tape on your bathroom door.
you've ever been kicked out of the zoo for heckling the monkeys.
the taillight covers of your car are made of red tape.
you think a subdivision is part of a math problem.
you've ever bathed with flea and tick soap.
you think "taking out the trash" means taking your in-laws to a movie.
you have every episode of Hee-Haw on tape.
you've ever been involved in a custody fight over a hunting dog.
your considered an expert on wormbeds.
your kids take a siphon hose to "Show and Tell."
the dog catcher calls for a backup unit when visiting your house.
you've ever bought a used cap.
your CB antenna is a danger to low-flying planes.
you pick your teeth from a catalog.
you've ever financed a tattoo.
you've ever stolen toilet paper.
you think a hot tub is a stolen bathroom fixture.
people hear your car a long time before they see it.
the gas pedal on your car is shaped like a bare foot.
you prefer car keys to Q-tips.
you take a fishing pole into Sea World.
you think a turtleneck is key ingredient for soup.
you've ever stood in line to have your picture taken with a freak of nature.
you think the French Riviera is a foreign car.
you go to a stock car race and don't need a program.
you've ever filled your deer tag on the golf course.
your toilet paper has page numbers on it.
mOTEL 6 turns off the lights when they see you coming.
you own more than three shirts with the sleeves cut off.
you've ever spray painted your girlfriend's name on an overpass.
your mother does not remove the Marlboro from her mouth before telling the state trooper to kiss her ass.
your pocket knife often doubles as a toothpick.
you own a denim leisure suit.
you know how many bales of hay your car will hold.
your dog has a litter of puppies on the living room floor and nobody notices.
you've ever been kicked out of the KKK for being a BIGOT.
your family tree does not fork.
you see no need to stop at rest stops because you have an empty milk jug in the car.
you have a rag for a gas cap.
the dog can't watch you eat without gagging.
you have a Hefty Bag for a passenger-side window.
you show your boyfriend you really love him by carving his name on your arm.
you've ever had to turn your pickup truck around because of bridge clearance restrictions.
you've ever had to scratch your sisters name out of a message that begins, "For a good time time call..."
you ever hit on somebody in a V.D. clinic.
your brother-in-law is also your uncle.
you bought a VCR because wrestling is on while your at work.
after the Prom you drove the truck while your date hit road signs with beer bottles.
your father executes the "pull my finger" trick during Christmas dinner.
all of your four letter words are two syllables.
you've ever been too drunk to fish.
you cut your toenails in front of company.
you view the upcoming family reunion as a chance to meet women.
your wife has a beer belly and you find it attractive.
hitchhikers won't get in the car with you.
you've ever heard a sheep bleat and had romantic thoughts.
your house doesn't have curtains but your truck does.
you wonder how service stations keep their restrooms so clean.
you can spit without opening your mouth.
you consider "Outdoor Life" deep reading.
you call your boss "dude".
you think a Volvo is part of a woman's anatomy.
you have grease under your toenails.
you consider your license plate personalized because your father made it.
your mother keeps a spit cup on the ironing board.
you think Dom Perignon is a Mafia leader.
you've ever been fired from a construction job because of your appearance.
you've ever worn a tube top to a wedding.
you've ever cleaned fish in your living room.
you actually know which kind of leaves make the best substitute for toilet paper.
your father walks you to school because you're both in the same grade.
the directions to your house say "Turn off the paved road."
your honeymoon was in Little Rock.
your wife has more children than teeth.
you think a family reunion is a good place to meet chicks.
you miss your sister's wedding because your best bowling shirt is at the cleaners.
your family tree doesn't fork.
your front porch collapses and more than 2 hound dogs are killed.
your dog and your wallet are both on a chain.
you've ever yelled "squeal like a piggy" when making love.
you've been on TV more than once describing what the tornado sounded like.
you don't need a clean shirt to go to work.
you've ever stabbed the back of someone's hand while they were reaching for the last piece of chicken.
when packing for vacation, your biggest decision is whether to use paper or plastic.
you think the phrase "chicken out" means one of your pets has escaped.
you have to take the entire day off work to get your teeth cleaned.
you think the "six to ten pounds" on the side of the Pampers box means how much it will hold.
your front porch collapses and more than two hound dogs are killed.
you have more fingers than teeth.
you think Campho-Phenique is a miracle drug.
you and your kid are both in the same grade.
you know you're a redneck when you use a handkerchief as a gasoline cap.
you know you are a redneck if when someone asks you for ID, you use your belt buckle.
you know you are a redneck if you refer to the fifth grade as, "My Senior year!"
you know you're a redneck if your name consists of more names than you have members of your family.
you have trouble with people parking under your truck also, if you see the height clearance on a bridge and turn your 4WD pickup around.
you've ever driven across a pond.
your 1 year old has more teeth than you do.
your dad walks you to school because you are in the same grade.
you know you're a red-neck when you get a gun for your wife and think you've made a good trade. 
you also know you're a red-neck if your front porch falls off the double wide and kills more than two dogs.
in addition, you are a red-neck if you paid more for the tatoo on your wife's right arm than you did for the ring on her left hand.
someone hollers "Hoedown" and your girlfriend hits the floor.
your mother has ever come out of the bathroom and said... "Y'all come look at this before I flush it"
you go to your family reunion to meet women.
you've ever been accused of lying through your tooth.
your dog passes gas and you claim it.
you've ever been on TV more than three times describing what the tornado sounded like.
the UFO hotline limits you to one call per day.
going to the bathroom in the middle of the night involves shoes and a flashlight.
your three year old has more teeth than you do.
you've ever made change in the offering plate.
your underwear doubles as your bathing suit.
more than one living relative is named after a southern civil war general.
you've ever used lard in bed.
you think that potted meat on a saltine is an hors d'ouerve.
there is a stuffed possum anywhere in your house.
fewer than half of your cars run.
you honestly think that women are turned on by animal noises and seductive tongue gestures.
you stand under the mistletoe at Christmas and wait for Granny and cousin Sue Ellen to walk by.
your mother has been involved in a fistfight at a high school sport event.
the best way to keep things cold is to leave 'em in the shade.
the neighbors started a petition over your Christmas lights.
your brother-in-law is your uncle.
you have refused to watch the Academy Awards since "Smokey and the Bandit" was snubbed for best picture.
your only condiment on the dining room table is the economy size bottle of ketchup.
the rear tires on your car are at least twice as wide as the front ones.
you consider "Outdoor Life" deep reading.
you prominently display a gift you bought a Graceland.
you use the term "over yonder" more than once a month.
your mother keeps a spit cup on the ironing board.
the most commonly heard phrase at your family reunion is "What the hell are you looking at, Shithead?".
your richest relative buys a new house and you have to help take the wheels off of it.
you've ever used lard in bed.
you own more than three shirts with the sleeves cut off.
you've ever spraypainted your girlfriend's name on an overpass.
you've ever been blacklisted from a bowling alley.
your high school annual is now a mug shot book for the police.
the highlight of your family reunion was your sister's nude dancing debut.
you've ever done your Christmas shopping at a truck stop.
there is a stuffed 'possum mounted anywhere in your home.
you consider a six-pack of beer and a bug-zapper entertainment.
your lifetime goal is to own your own fireworks stand.
you PREFER to walk the excess lenght off your jeans rather than hemn them.
someone asks to see your i.d. and you show them your belt buckle.
less than half of the cars you own run.
your junior-senior prom had a day-care center.